I think that trying to generate your own
material will not only maybe you'll get
it made but it'll also give you a better
sense of what it is that you want to do
and the other thing is that you know
back when I was starting out to get a
camera and an editing Bay and a Sam TAC
package you know that was that was a big
deal like that was a big investment and
it was all you know thirty
five-millimeter and you know na grows
and you can all all kinds of like you
know I mean back I mean now you know
it's all right here you know don't make
your movie hey everybody I hope you
enjoyed this episode brought to you by
our sponsors at blinka study welcome to
impact theory today's guest is one of
the most prolific actors to make a home
on the big screen having starred in a
litany of the most iconic films in the
history of cinema across five different
decades I might add there are precious
few actors who have had the kind of
towering career that he's already had
and he's still going strong and that
really isn't empty hyperbole this is
just a tiny fraction of his unbelievable
filmography Footloose Animal House diner
a few good men Friday the 13th
Apollo 13 Mystic River x-men first class
planes trains and automobiles and Oliver
Stone's widely celebrated retelling of
the assassination of America's 35th
president JFK
he's worked alongside such industry
Titans as Meryl Streep Sean Penn Clint
Eastwood Tom Cruise Tom Hanks John
Lithgow Kevin Costner and the iconic
Jack Nicholson to name but a few and
that's just his film work he's also made
the jump to TV to take part in the new
Golden Age of storytelling which shows
like the following I love dick taking
chance for which he won a Golden Globe
for his performance so please help me in
welcoming the man that none of us are
separated from by more than six degrees
the star of the new horror thriller you
should have left the
Dairy actor Kevin Bacon Kevin welcome to
the show man thanks for having me
dude an absolute absolute pleasure your
career is crazy when I think about the
number of films that you've been in that
have really left their mark on cinema is
pretty staggering what is it like right
now given the shutdown of the film
industry how's that been do you see a
path forward like when are we going to
get back to sort of business as usual
well I would start by saying just in
general about the shutdown you know I I
try to wake up every day and feel as
much gratitude as I can for the fact
that I have a roof over my head and I've
got plenty of food to eat and that I
live a very privileged lifestyle that I
have my and my wife is with me and we
have our health and you know at this
point my family is all healthy on the
youngest of six and I have two children
myself my wife has a lot of people and
her family and everyone seems to be
pretty healthy so that that's that's
worth try to start each day just with
that kind of you know feeling of being
feeling pretty lucky in this in this
situation I'm someone who really likes
to work as you probably see from my IMDB
page there were a lot of times when I
probably you know just went to work
because I just wanted to be busy
possibly without really you know being
as choosy as I should have been and and
it's just a it's just a really strong
work ethic that I have you know it's a
combination of that and to come and
having a strong work ethic and also you
know having been in situations where you
know I didn't have a pot to piss in and
and every job I thought was gonna be my
last and and I was you know trying to
you know I was writing out the money was
leaving my bank account I was trying to
you know just work to put something back
in there and and so
I always have this somebody who offers
me something or gives me an opportunity
to go I'm like I better take it because
you know this may be it I'm trying to
get better about being choosy when you
when you look at that you know you go if
you're really shut down for month after
month it's it's not it's not a vacation
and I don't really like vacations to
tell you the truth I don't really like
to me to have vacation that much I mean
we will do like a Christmas kind of you
know you kind of have to shut down
because the whole industry shuts down
but generally my wife and I both of us
even though we love home and we love to
you know cook and we're not people that
like to go out to premieres and do all
that kind of stuff we are vagabonds and
we are our own version of workaholics we
now you've talked about actually
enjoying being on a tour bus yeah so the
vague-abonding thing like as somebody
who's known for having a pretty solid
home life what is it about the call of
the road enjoying being on the tour bus
and traveling around I'm assuming most
of the time you and your wife are off on
different projects so what what is the
call of the road well when I say you
know when I talk about the when I talk
about the tour bus you know I'm I'm
really just saying that in general my
life has been a tour bus even before we
put the band together because you know
people kind of think that if you're an
actor you live in Hollywood and then you
do all your work in Hollywood and that's
really not the case I mean I think I've
probably made a movie or a TV show in in
at least 50% of the states in this in
this between the two of us let's say you
know so we're going from place to place
to place and we're bouncing back and
forth from New York to to LA to wherever
so we always feel like our suitcases are
packed it's like we have a very very
solid kind of home situation but we
always know that those suitcases are
packed and
in a weird kind of way that really feeds
us now what is it about I don't know
we're running from something or or you
know I don't I'm not really sure what
the what the psychological reason for
that is but I know that it's something
that feeds both of us and it's do you
ever explored that in your lyrics I know
you've talked about how your lyrics are
a lot more personal so what in writing
those lyrics what what are some of the
ideas you explore I've heard you sort of
tease before like are we running towards
something we're running away from
something but really in your lyrics I
imagine you've explored it what what is
sort of the the layer revealed there
yeah I I definitely explore it in my
lyrics but a lot of times but listen I
wouldn't be alone in in that as a
songwriter to talk about the road let's
face it I mean I'm not the first guy who
talked about the road I mean the last
thing I think I probably wrote around
that thing was a was a song called I
feel you and I was on the road and we
were in we pulled into Jackson
Mississippi and and and I was struck
with seeing this old Greyhound bus
station and they had a plaque about the
the Freedom Riders who would come
through Jackson Mississippi during the
civil rights movement and I just kind of
kicked this song off with that but it
was really about it's called life I feel
you what's a common thing it's called I
feel you yeah and it's really about
feeling her you know wherever I am that
that if you really care about somebody
and you're on the road is to there's two
options one is that you know it
completely [__] up your relationship
and you see that happen a lot of times
people you know have a hard time pulling
it together and the other is that you
just try to I don't know trying to keep
that person with you in some sort of a
way and it's challenging
you know that's challenging you know
there's a lot to be to do with that well
I'm actually really interested about
that so my wife and I my wife's British
so at the beginning of our relationship
it was long distance and I realized that
just like you said I had a choice I
could sort of flip a switch in my head
and
distance between us and not sort of
laments over the absence in the distance
or I could really like lean into that
sort of ache and missing her and I found
that it was actually way more productive
to lean in even though it made it hurt
more and that it made me really hate
being a part but it it kept this sort of
magnetism going is that a strategy that
you employ yeah sure
absence makes the heart grow fonder yeah
I mean that's uh that's a that's a
definite strategy and na and I do I do
lean into it and you know we have we
have many many years where except for a
couple of projects you know where I was
in Africa and she was working someplace
else and and another time I think I was
you know we kept it down to our best
ability we kept it down to two weeks and
sometimes we would fly to the middle of
the country just to meet you know if we
were on either side just to you know
make the trip and just kind of randomly
and we spent a lot of time in airports
and a lot of time on airplanes and and
and planes trains and automobiles so
listen we are we we are we're we're
people that like to travel so that so
being in this kind of a lot down and
being such a you know while working kind
of person you I'm 61 years old and
there's a lot of people who are slowing
down playing golf you know whatever
taking a boat out or you know whatever
it is that they read in the book sitting
on the couch watching you know things
that you hear people say I just wanna
you know and I I get it in the truth is
it I'm not a you know I don't I don't
dig ditches you know I'm a professional
pretender so I live a very tough to like
my lifestyle it's it's it's very cushy
but I also really have no desire to slow
down at this point in my life and so
what I find is that during this time I
find a way to be busy you know I wake up
and give myself some kind of a job and
it could be cleaning out the basement or
could
be writing a song or it could be
developing the movie idea could be
talking about you know something of a
charitable nature or whatever it is but
I definitely give myself a job pretty
much every day and I realized that I
think that's what I do anyway you know
like my family makes fun of me because
if we do end up on some kind of vacation
which we do sometimes at Christmas I'm
there with you know a guidebook so I've
like scheduled every day within an inch
of its life and it's not I'm not like it
let's go down to the beach and just like
sit I'm like we we're going doing this
we're going doing that you know that's
interesting so when you think about
getting old like are you imagining sort
of a god Peter fond I think it was that
was you know on Golden Pond and he was
like super if I can old is that it like
we're acting until we're in the coffin
or have you crossed some sort of if I
manage to do this then I'll I'll sort of
gracefully go into true old age you know
what I think is that you know Peter
Fonda he was the right guy to play that
part and that's one of the nice things
about the gig that I have you know it's
it's different than say you know if
you're if you're a surgeon you know you
gotta say it's time you know you it's
time my hands are too shaky my mind is
not where it used to be if you're a
football player you know your body is no
longer able to do those things that it
could do if you're an actor
there's old guys to play and there's
things that you can explore because
what's the parts that you're getting is
somehow starting to line up with with
what you're feeling and what you're
going through in your life and and you
know my theory about the acting thing
for me is to use yourself and lose
yourself because every part that I go
into what else do I have to use but the
experiences that I've had
the things that in my body in my face
and my voice and you know all my stuff
but I want to lose myself into the role
I don't want to feel like it's Kevin so
I yeah I'm not gonna I'm totally fine
with no longer you know kind of being
whatever a whatever I'll lead character
you know and in in a in a movie
situation should be but you know the
truth is is I was never really that guy
anyway I had a moment you know and
footless where I was kind of like the
guy but when you really look at at
what's worked for me it's always been
character parts so if I'm gonna you know
continue the rest of my career as a
character actor I think that's great I
also feel the same way about you know
songwriting and some rings a little
different because every time I write a
song I feel like the last one I wrote
and so I don't know if that tap you know
has the potential of being turned off or
or whether or not at least anything that
I would be proud of would be turned off
but when it comes to acting I want to be
you know Peter Fonda in on cold and thon
and then just die you know and that
would be great yeah when I so the recent
movie that you did or at least the one
that came out you should have left the
matically that is really interesting to
me and seems to line up with where
you're at now and I know that you say
that you actually don't want to step
into a character that is Kevin and
obviously that character isn't you but
fanatically when I think about some of
the things you've talked so powerfully
about you really touch on that in the
movie which by the way is creepy as [__]
and so I have no doubt that that one it
was blum house right mm-hmm
yeah yeah so I mean Jesus between the
you and the talent behind the camera and
then partnering up with Blum House I'm
super excited to see how far that one
goes very very interesting was that part
of what jury did the project I know that
you actually shepherded the project but
was that that no
of being an older guy who's sort of in
in the movie anyway representing that
transition of age by being married to
somebody younger and the anxieties that
that produces was that something
specifically you wanted to pursue
because of that theme yeah I think that
the writer/director is in David kept he
he directed me in a film called stir of
echoes twenty years ago and we had a
really good relationship and we actually
had an actual real old friendship that
has lasted through those 20 years and I
kept kind of I don't know just wanting
bugging him about doing something
together and Kira
you know actually tossed out the idea of
some kind of a a horror movie
surrounding a marriage and and after 20
years tried to talk David into getting
he hired me again
that idea sort of sparked something in
him and he's an amazing writer and so we
started to knock these ideas around and
pretty much right away he felt like it
should be a second marriage and that and
that we were talking about part of the
paranoia it's and it's kind of what we
were talking about before you know of
being away from somebody and you know
wondering you know if you see someone
all the time than you know exactly is
kind of who you think you know exactly
like where they're at right but if
they're gone or they're off in another
world or at work or you know with
colleagues or in this case on a movie
set you know and and doing a sex scene
sex scene yeah your mind can go a lot of
different places so in order to kind of
amplify that and also to give the
character a sense of of losing his
relevance we wanted to make his wife
much younger than him and make her into
an actor these are very kind of like
specific things that we talked about
very early on so yeah I think that's not
what that's not specifically what's
going on and in in
in my relationship because my wife is
younger than me but she's not that much
younger than me David his own is his
second marriage his wife is a bit
younger than him but again it's not
exactly the same thing but there are
those kinds of themes were things that
we talked about very specifically yeah
marriage is obviously somewhere like as
an interviewer I will just tell you as
soon as we had gotten you to agree to be
on the show I'm like I've got to ask him
what the secret to along marriages and
then of course in my research I find
that you button get more annoyed about
that question than just about it's like
the same as people making you dance at a
wedding to the Footloose theme song and
but at the same time dude like you've
created like the ultimate trap in your
marriage and you guys still have this
incredibly thriving marriage do you
really see yourself as just sort of like
I just do what I do or or like it just
seems like there has to be some strategy
that you guys are deploying hits I wish
there was Smith I wish there what I do
then I could tell you what the strategy
was but I feel a couple of things about
that one is that you know there's so
much DNA and there's so much nurture
versus nature that makes two people able
to spend time together and I think that
marriage to me look at the statistics it
just doesn't work it's like we we set it
up to be this big thing and we put it on
this pedestal and we you know create
these ceremonies so that it's actually
supposed to be a bond that's from a
higher power and you know God is there
and then you spend all the money all the
money you have you don't want your
parents that mean he's been in the
wedding and you're worried about you
know insulting the people that don't
come and and you know what happened II
marriages survive not even in my
industry but in in in America I don't
really know is that a flirt or something
like that you know so for me to say well
this is what we do and if you do it you
know it just it doesn't hold
doesn't hold any water you know and I
and the other the other thing about it
is it's a it's as much a mystery to me
as it is to anybody else and and the
reason that I have a hard time with it
is not that I don't not that I'm opposed
to talking about it but generally when
I'm asked about my marriage it's on a
red carpet and they're looking for a
sound bite or or it's an it's not in
this kind of long-form situation or it's
in it it's an interview but they're just
gonna take like three little words and
put it put it up there and that's to me
frankly disrespectful to the marriage
you know it's disrespectful to the
people that are gonna try to read and go
Alec Kevin Bacon says you know whatever
you know she's my best friend there's
some [__] like that you know and but
it's also disrespectful to the marriage
so I really I don't know I do think that
we started this out talking about the
pandemic and I think that the pandemic
has been a really interesting test for
it you know you would kind of go well
they've been together so long that it's
not gonna be an issue for them but the
truth is we've been together for us a
long time as we spoke about always being
able to splittin you know to me and
always knowing that pretty soon we were
gonna split you know and it literally
yesterday you know the industry is maybe
chipping away it started to get open and
and if it does kick back in chances are
I'll be working in New York and she'll
be working in LA and because travel is
now you know a little bit you know dicey
we will probably be apart for a long
more stretch than we were used to and we
were laughing about it because I said
it's gonna be fine you've had plenty of
make it we've been able to bank we've
been able to bank some serious you know
hours that we've we've never spent this
much time together in our marriage ever
yeah that the the whole idea of
being able to maintain a relationship
when you have that sort of you're
spreading apart you're coming back
together which is again exactly what my
wife and I went through at the beginning
becomes a whole different question on
whether you can navigate being together
and it's interesting my wife and I have
taken an incredibly tactical approach to
being married I had from the time I was
14 I started having a recurring
nightmare of being in a loveless
marriage
now I didn't recognize it at the time
but my parents obviously were in well
that's what was happening to my parents
so I was in the middle of it but I was
too young to understand what was going
on literally three weeks after I left
for college my parents split up so I'm
picking up on something growing up I
start having this recurring nightmare
and so when I got in deciding to propose
to my wife was difficult that I was like
oh man do I really want to do this I had
always thought that I was never going to
get married and so I was like nah I
don't know about once I decided to
propose then it was like okay I'm
shutting that door like it's I'm only
moving forward with this but I thought
the only way to avoid being trapped is
to like be aggressively open honest talk
about it say like what do we have to do
to make this rad like I don't want to be
in a marriage that works I want to be in
a marriage that's [__] awesome like I
want to I want this to be the most
important thing in my life the most
joyful thing in my life and so we have
had because we were so young when we got
together we've had to have like all of
these hike rules what we call rules of
engagement like how do you deal with an
argument what does that look like how do
you deal with distance and absence and
you know there used to be times where
because my wife would go home to see her
family at Christmas and so I would just
it would be you know maybe two weeks and
I would be going crazy and out of my
mind and so it was having to realize
that was actually advantageous and to
distance myself from her emotionally
would be deeply problematic and so I'm
it's very interesting to me that you
guys have had such a tremendously
successful relationship being very and I
don't know if you would use the word
laissez-faire so stop me if that doesn't
feel right but but just a more sort of
natural take what what may come and to
your point about you know nature and
nurture it's interesting how it plays
out yeah I wrote a song
called play which was probably I guess
two or three songs ago that we released
and it was a little bit of a reaction to
these very things and you know people
will often say to me it's a lot of work
it's a lot of work and listen I I for
what for one person and two people like
if you will not offend me if you're like
you're a crazy [__] now talking
about this is work I don't mind all that
stuff is working for you how long you
been married we've been married for 18
years okay so it's working right because
that's a that's a lot that's um you know
that's like a that's like a Hollywood
Platinum and you know so I so so but
this song that I wrote is called play
and it's the basis of it is when you
really ask me like what is it the work
that we put in or is that the fact that
we'd like to play together and I've kind
of feel like for us it's a little bit
more the fact that we'd like to play
together like do you guys sing together
all the time yeah I I didn't realise one
I didn't realize how well you could sing
[__] dude your voice is incredible uh
and then your wife's voice is amazing
was that part of what sparked for you
guys initially no no well music kind of
was we would sing along to records and
we had a we had a kind of when we first
met we had a like a freakishly kind of
shared idea about things that we liked
and artists that we were really big on
so we kind of bonded on that and we
would we would sing along and you know
when we first put the band together she
would sometimes come up and sing harmony
and that she kind she kind of left stop
doing that
so yeah we would sing at about probably
four years ago or so she had never
picked up an instrument and I got her
ukulele and she started playing and and
then you know we would play together and
and yeah so that's a that's definitely a
part of a part of what we do in this
family um you know my kids are both
musicians and so your son scored a movie
that you and cured it together is yeah
he remembers
directed the movie and he scored that he
also scored a this podcast that I had
recently called the last degree of Kevin
Bacon which was a comedy half-hour
comedy podcast and in a totally
different sort of genre thing you know
it was like I'm its comedy and Cure's
movie was much more you know drama
sentimental kind of drama so yeah he's
very pleased he's a talented kid the the
six degrees of Kevin Bacon thing that
that is that's a level of Fame that has
got to be a little strange I'm actually
curious like one you're being famous and
the way that you're famous your name is
Kevin Bacon right it's not Kevin it's
Kevin Bacon to us and the when that game
came out and people started playing it I
remember thinking like this is crazy
like your name has transcended even you
it's like it's now like this bigger
thing is that weird to have like other
people running with that game your name
some piece of your identity it's it's
super intriguing
yeah well I've talked and I feel that
Fame is a very strange beast you know
and you know at first I was very
resistant to the game in fact I was for
somebody that was so hungry to be famous
when I got famous I was really like very
uncomfortable with it you know and I
really was truly hungry as a kid to
become what my dad my dad was famous in
Philadelphia and and you know he he was
really into his own fame and his own
legacy it was something you know you
talked about you know relevance and I
was kind of push I pushed back on that a
lot at the same time wanting that kind
of Fame and I think I wanted to be more
famous than him basically is it true dad
was on the cover of Time magazine yeah
it was yeah in the 60s of talking about
American cities and he was he fought
very hard for to bring vitality back to
the Centers of cities he loves cities
and that was at a time you know when
there was kind of you know suburban life
was the one that was the most desirable
white flight you know they called it and
and he was a big proponent not just to
Philadelphia but all over of like having
city's operating be places where people
could enjoy their life and be in close
proximity to each other and so he was
really famous for for that kind of stuff
urban renewal I guess they called it and
and and I was so driven but when the
when I got really famous I got really
kind of resistant of it and I'm really
over that over time learned to live with
it in the same way that I've learned to
you know be okay with the with the game
I thought it was a joke basically at my
expense that all that being said you
know as as cool as the game is and and
we have gotten a chance to take it and
take me out of the concept because a lot
of times I feel like it was it's really
not about me you know it's really about
the hunger that we have connectivity as
a people as a as a nation as a globe as
a global entity that's that's the reason
why Facebook blew up and that's the
reason why social media is what social
media is it's a you know it's that
hunger interesting so one of my favorite
stories about you is your take on diner
and this dude you probably know this
about yourself you're maybe you're never
gonna say it out loud so I will say it
for you and this is something that
really inspires me so take diner right
so you're with these extraordinary
improv artists and you realize okay I'm
not sure I'm yet where I want to be with
improv so I know the value that I can
bring is to to sit back and react and
give the camera somewhere else to go to
help the audience really connect with
what's happening and I thought that's so
[__] brilliant or when you said yeah
you know what I don't actually want to
pursue being a leading man I want to
character actor which I think has given
you the career that it's given you
because you can have that level of
versatility I agree
there's like a powerful humility in that
so it I get this sort of downplay of
well you know I've just been in a lot of
ensemble pieces but yeah I think there's
something more profound than that I mean
in terms of well I I completely agree
with the character thing I mean I I
always was a character actor I had a
moment as a leading man I was trying to
chase still being a leading man when I
went wait a second you're really a
character actor because they're all
characters even if you got the biggest
part in the in the show it's a character
in my mind you know um and that was a
that was a seminal kind of moment for me
for sure but the other thing I'll say
about something like like diner and
somehow somehow instinctually I think I
knew this and I can't really pinpoint
what it was and that is that in in my in
in our in our business in the movie
business
I got into it because I was hoping for
the feeling of playing in a band you
don't mean that there was going to be a
brotherhood and a sisterhood of actors
and I felt that for a while when I was
doing theater and I was doing a lot of
you know regional theatre off Broadway
theater and nobody was really a big star
everyone was kind but there are people
that are older than made and had more
experience but had bigger parts or
whatever but there was really this
feeling that we were getting together to
put the play across and then to put the
seating across and and that in the same
way that the bass bass player has to
listen to the drummer if you two people
are playing in a scene you have to be
you have to you have to be dancing you
know you have to has to be has to be
harmony there has to be a feeling there
when you get onto a movie set
right away it's different somebody has a
bigger trailer somebody is called to the
set last so that they don't have to wait
for you to show up pretty much right
away
the rumors are out about who's getting
paid what they treat you different in a
very hierarchical way and even in the in
the shooting of a film there's a
separation that's created between actors
as opposed to a bringing together of
actors every once in a while there's
somebody that you know does a good job
with that Barry Levinson being one you
know put us in a shitty hotel in
Baltimore and you know it's basically
like you guys have to you know I feel
like you're friends and you know so go
hang out you know it was smart but if
you start a scene and you feel like
you're really related to yourself or
multiple actors you shoot them a watch
then the next time you do another set up
your your there's there's some gear in
between you and that actor and then you
get to a close-up and there's even more
gear there's even more light so there's
even more cameras and you're sitting off
in some corner on an Apple box on the
end the actor is there you can barely
see him and as the actor you start to go
well all this is really about is my
close-up so I don't have to feel this
connection to this person anymore
and then you go and you see the movie
and you're cut out of your cut in or
your whatever and so it created a
feeling to me of every man for himself
and a sort of kind of isolation and I
think that I instinctually wanted to
push back against that so you in the in
the case of diner yeah I was looking
around and I was thinking to myself boy
everyone's doing so great and they're
gonna get bigger parts and they're gonna
be more impactful and they're gonna be
you know but I think somehow I knew that
I had to think about the play and the
fact that this character has to fit into
that group because if everybody in the
is exactly the same then it's not going
to be it's not going to have the dynamic
that a group of friends would have yeah
filmmaking compared to theater now I
have very limited experience but I
actually did get paid to act in a play
when I was in high school oh wow the
most surreal experience of my life so I
was doing or like to just this was in
Tacoma Washington Tacoma Actors Guild
shout out I don't even know if they
still exist but they did a summer thing
with high school kids basically and I
was doing that and then they would
audition those kids for the play that
Christmas season so it was a Christmas
carol and I got cast and I missed my
exit driving home three times because I
was so excited I like was in a just a
fog I couldn't believe it I was over the
moon and my part could not have been
smaller
they had me playing like four or five
different characters and a lot of what I
did was move furniture between scenes
and stuff but do when I say that I had
the time of my life I felt very
differently than your kids I was beyond
excited to be missing school it was
amazing and that was it had this like
family environment and part of I think
what creates that family environment is
I talked to people a lot about when you
embody something your brain goes oh this
matters I feel this whatever and so if
you're if as a character you're going
through an emotion with another human
being you begin to sort of muddle those
things it's like whoa we've I've shared
these emotions with you I've been robbed
by weight I was just acting but because
you're actually embodying it you do get
that sense of connection and then
oftentimes in theater you're you're
having to disrobe in front of them you
know right off the stage and so there's
there's like a real physical intimacy to
it all or to that was so [__] cool
and then I go to film school and just
filmmaking as an art form has always
captured my heart and soul and knew that
that's what I wanted to do and because
I've only ever worked on like really low
budget films the just insane hours and
they're like sleeping in the editing
room and you know being there and trying
to create moments with the actors in
there no trailers no hierarchy at least
on the stuff that I've done so you did
get it was very different but you got
another
of family vibe and that's part of what
I've always loved about the craft and
I'm curious so there was in your recent
film you should have left it's so
intimate and so contained were you guys
able to create more of that vibe in that
kind of environment yeah I don't need to
say that you can never have that and I
think that you certainly it depends on
the it depends on the film and you can
you and and if you have for instance I
think a lot of times it comes down from
the top so just to give you an example
you know working with Meryl Streep of
course you know I would look at Meryl
Streep and think to myself okay this is
the this this person has the career that
I would most likely to like to aspire to
and I think she's just incredible and
here we are and I'm gonna actually do
you know a movie with her and I've got a
pretty big part and so we go to the
table read and you're thinking oh boy
what's this gonna be like and she knows
that you know she knows that everyone is
kind of feeling that you know and she
just disarms it like right away I'm not
really sure what she did but she just
made us all feel like you know okay
we're rolling up our sleeves and we're
getting to work and you know john c
reilly was an experienced actor david
petheram is an experienced actor you
know she
there was no it was like we were there
to to play the play and and not to just
kind of fight for our own moments so I
think that you know I try to create that
if I can if I happen to be number one on
the call sheet that's the vibe that I
want to create so in a case of something
like you should have left yeah
definitely it was really me and and
Amanda and Dave I mean the the little
girl certainly you know she's a little
girl so it's not really exactly the same
kind of thing but but yeah we felt like
we were putting our heads together to
you know create this thing together and
that's
so I I do and I know you mean about
independent films there is a real sense
of you know we got through this and we
we had these hours and we have a sense
of family it is possible to create I I
worried you know about at least you know
for the time being when we do come back
to work
it's going to be a very very different
different kind of vibe on a set you know
I mean from what does it the need to
keep distance
yeah the distance and probably the crew
will be in some version of PPE the
actors and the only person people that
are not going to be you know where I
masks and then actors probably have
masks on for the greater part part of
the day and probably wear them during
rehearsal and then you know so it's it's
there's going to be a lot of isolation
and it's gonna be difficult we can't we
movie people we are thrown together
sometimes with strangers were put into
very intimate situations I can't tell
you how many times I've you know met
somebody and they say yeah you know this
is this is you know Susie okay you know
hop in bed or or okay this is the this
is Edward you know he's your dad okay
you haven't seen him for 20 years be
just like meet him in fact that you know
meets like the crazy kind of things not
to mention the hours not to mention the
the weather not to mention the difficult
shooting situations that that would go
through we have there it's a very
intimate way of making a living
emotionally and and physically so
creating that in being distant is gonna
be tough
as the industry started talking about
the specifics of what it will take to
get back together yeah yeah there's
what's the there's been a protocol that
came out from our union and I think the
general idea is that the you know the
more testing the less risk
so I think that's gonna be you know it's
good I don't know that that much about
how many tests are reveal but I'm
guessing that there's that'll be a piece
of it you know or re or how much testing
is being done and then yeah it's
essentially all crews is the crew gets
very pared down there's a there's a zone
that is you know a protected kind of
zone and the actors are the only ones
that are in it that are not you know
protected and if they started talking
timeline yet yeah you know people are
wishful thinking fall okay and are you
developing projects any differently
given what's going on huh well I can
tell you that the only thing that in
terms of that is a Karen I think we we
made a I wrote a song in during lockdown
and you know corded it and it's at home
you know got a nice mic here and you
know a computer and and sent sent some
files around and friend of mine produced
it and then I wanted to shoot a video
for it so I got out there with the
iPhone and I have a GoPro and we're
shooting some stuff just myself you know
I haven't set up the shot and walk into
it and you know do the whole thing and I
was like yeah I said I said it to an
editor to really move you some moving
stuff so it's like honey you busy so and
she's directing quite a bit actually so
she came out and started shooting some
stuff for me for this for this video and
it's it's kind of amazing how great it
looks and truly really come together and
now we're really talking about just
making something that we just kind of
create that's outside of a music video
you know some some kind of piece of
content and how we do that I don't know
but this is what I talk about in terms
of you know this desire to stay busy
so it's been fun to sort of knock those
ideas around and I think to collaborate
in that kind of way
we don't really work that much together
Karen hi but as many times as we've been
together she's directing me a couple of
times
directed city on a hill my Showtime show
I've directed her a few times we've
produced some stuff together but it's
yeah as long as we've been together
haven't really that many projects so so
we're we're now kind of open to that and
who knows maybe that'll happen while
work well lockdown
yeah I was gonna say from a development
perspective taking care of the other
lead actress definitely being somebody
that you don't have to worry about be a
good time to develop something with her
when did you start developing projects
that seems to me like as an actor just
such a smart move I did I've done it for
a really long time but I honestly I I
wish I even worked harder at it it's
it's a but back in the in the 80s if you
had a hit movie they just gave you a
development deal studios just did it
they had office space they could be an
office they paid the salary of your
development person and an assistant and
I was on the Sony lot I think and even
though I was living in New York but I
was still you know going out and we were
working on things and I don't know it
was I think I got to I was too I would I
would get really into something for a
moment and then and then I would go back
to say oh you know I just want to act
you know this is just too much because
yeah because this development is really
hard you know as you know you know it
takes a long time that you have to do
really and and to be a producer a good
producer doesn't just have one thing you
know a good producer has 20 things that
they're that they're working on because
they all are gonna take a long time
they're gonna have a hard time getting
them made you know I just wanted to be
active boy I'm one
level and you know but I would I talk to
young actors and certainly I talk to my
my my daughter about this she's an actor
um I think it's a good thing to do I
think that trying to generate your own
material will not only make you'll get
it made but it'll also give you a better
sense of what it is that you want to do
and the other thing is that you know
back when I was starting out to get a
camera and an editing Bay and a sound
pack package you know that was that was
a big deal like that was a big
investment and it was all you know
thirty five-millimeter and you know na
grows and you feel all kinds of like you
know I mean back
I mean you now you know it's all right
here you know don't make your movie you
know learn how to edit so what what is
up next what do you what do you have
lined up I know that I tried desperately
to find the when the next season of city
on a hill is coming out sorry
we're about three episodes and and when
when we wanted to lock down and so I'm
hoping that we can you know start to
prep than August and September will say
I mean I we have the scripts and and so
far I haven't heard anything from
Showtime saying anything other than they
want to keep shooting it and and I
really like doing it I like like I'm
liking a lot I directed the first
episode of this season so just that I
want you know to be seen and beyond that
I don't know you know I'm attached to a
couple of things you know we'll see
we'll see
I you know but I know that I know that I
I know I want to work
and I also have you know one that if I
could really you know I'm not keep
hitting this theme of being grateful but
one thing is is really I'm really happy
about when I don't tend to look back or
these are the only times when when I
think about my career is it on the whole
is what I'm doing interviews you know
otherwise you know I'm waking up and you
know making my coffee and then reading
the paper and and trying to figure out
my day you know put one foot in front of
the other I don't I don't go hmm diner
you know but when I do think about it
what I think to myself is the thing that
I always wanted is something there's the
main thing that I have that I always
wanted was that if somebody came to me
with a role that if we did that it
wouldn't just fit into one category and
that's what I say you know I get stuff
kind of all over the map in terms of the
types of people that I'm asked to play
from different parts of the country
different you know walks of life
different points of view so so I just
hope that that continues because even if
it's something that I don't end up doing
you know you know you look at it and go
wow I never have to play the plumber you
know and I played an astronaut and I
played a x-man but I haven't played a
plumber you know I'm really I'm really
thankful for that and when you are
looking for the roles and you get
something new how do you find that hook
I know you've said that there are some
times you can just hear the voice of the
character but when it isn't sort of
presenting itself that fast how do you
dig in and find it yeah I mean that's
exactly what it is kind of digging in
and finding it I I mean how do I do it I
think I just keep asking myself
questions about
about this guy and and I and and and I
think about all kinds of things that
they would like or wouldn't like or
where they're from or you know maybe you
go into some kind of backstory you think
well even if it's not going to be in the
script what if you know his father died
when he was seven near or whatever it
happens to be you know what if you know
he was attacked by a dog you know
whatever happened it's part of that
driving towards specificity yeah yeah
driving towards specificity will
sometimes open up a door that you don't
really know was there in terms of
finding a hook yeah as a writer that's
one thing when I'm writing a story and
you've got a character and you're trying
to figure out how to play a scene or
whatever oftentimes I find it's it is a
lack of specificity that makes it harder
and you would think that in shutting
doors you're making it more difficult
but that actually makes it a lot easier
in in your recent film you should have
left one thing that I thought was really
interesting and I spoiler alert for
anybody who's watching truly spoiler
alert you end up playing two characters
that are in conversation with each other
and the way that you differentiated them
but in fact one thing I want to know
they they felt like they you transition
where at first I wasn't sure that that
was you in both roles and then I was
like oh [__] it is him that was really
interesting how do you when you're gonna
play both roles how do you find a way to
differentiate especially when all t'me
the the sort of punchline is that it's
the same person what we tried to dig
into was that that other person was was
a manifestation of his you know the fear
and horror in his life so we were trying
to like MIT then then then make
something specific that would have
terrified him as a young man and then we
went then we started started putting the
pieces together who that would we but
did that person was very specific you
know we stuff and you would never
in terms of his backstory yeah it's
interesting I from you hear actors talk
about that like I'll write the bio of
this character whatever it never makes
it on screen or I've heard stories about
Tarantino doing that where he'll just
write write write stuff that he knows is
never gonna make it onto the screen but
it is interesting how it really does
inform choices that you make one thing
that I heard you say that I thought
summed up acting really well and was a
super powerful insight for somebody like
me I wasn't spend time doing that is you
were talking about I love dick and you
were saying you can't show up and play
sexy like you can show up and play mad
or frustrated or whatever what what is
that that translate translation into
playable what makes something playable
well it's it's it's active you know I'm
hungry I want to eat I'm angry I'm gonna
yell I'm sad I'm gonna cry you know it's
it's active things like being sexy it's
more of a quality and it's it's a
quality that you know may not appeal to
one person or to another people talk
about it a lot about trying to make a
character likeable and like I just I
can't walk into a room like ibly you
know I can I can walk into a room having
you know you know cold or or hot or like
I have to go to the bathroom or sadness
you know but it's it's an out it's it's
an outside quality that you're trying to
reach for the post an inside active
active inside thing yeah I was reading a
book on directing and it's it's really
funny I always tell people's and I'm
sort of joking but I actually mean it it
took me three years to figure out what a
producer does um in film school I I
legitimately didn't understand like even
taking the classes I was like I don't I
don't understand what this is and I mean
once somebody explains it you know that
ultimately it's the person that brings
the pieces together and actually gets
the film made like think of all the
things that it takes to bring to herd
cats get them together pointed in one
direction get it across the finish line
deal with finance ears all that stuff
it's like okay cool it's like the very
logistical job but the same was true for
directing it's like I always thought of
directing as well
where you put the camera but I had no
concept of how to talk to an actor or
what it meant to make something playable
and one of the was reading a book and it
gave like this really simple advice I'd
actually be really interested to hear if
you think this is [__] advice or if it's
really useful and he said you know I
realize I had to translate into things
that are actionable so I would say
things like play it like you're angry
play it like your son just died play it
like you know your wife just broke up
with you and it's like then all of a
sudden you get that that sort of bundle
of emotions and you understand sort of
the position that you're coming at it
from and I thought wow that's really
interesting even though in the scene it
may have nothing to do with any of those
things but you're handing them sort of a
an uma veldt of experience or emotion
that allows them to inform what they're
doing super curious you're nodding so
I'll take that as a it's at least mildly
useful yeah a curious if there's a
better way I think I look I think that
every actor reaction in different ways
and a lot of times being a good director
sometimes there's those moments where
you have to come up and you know whisper
the the gem into the actors ear that
makes him you know you know think about
your dog or whatever it is you know but
a lot of times I think it's about
creating a good working space where the
actor can go and and do their best work
and encourage them to keep going further
I also think it's it's good if possible
to encourage an actor to prepare so that
the time on the set is spent less trying
to quote unquote get a performance from
them and more about you know being able
to frame their performance in a way that
that that brings it to life through the
lens makes sense well Kevin dude thank
you so much for coming on man and thank
you for the considerable gifts that
you've given to the film industry you
are definitely somebody that I hope to
in front of the camera for a very very
very long time hey you yeah dude it's
the fact that you show up so prepared
and take things so seriously is
self-evident loved your performance and
you should have left thought it was
wonderful you guys made that thing look
just extraordinary and knowing that it
was contained I'm sure for partly for
budgetary reasons you just never feel it
as the audience so infront of the camera
behind the cameraman please keep doing
it it's absolutely phenomenal as
somebody who loves him as much as I do
I'm super grateful to have had you as a
part of my my lexicon growing up so okay
thank you good sir
everybody make sure that you watch yeah
- say it again
we'll do it again we'll do it again
sometime dude I would love that
any time you've got something to promote
dude come on I would love that
yeah an extraordinary guys if you have
it be sure to go check out you should
have left in fact Kevin I saw it on
Apple TV where is the best place that
people can check this out I think it's
the only video man I you know wherever
you get your video on-demand it can be
on your TV you can be going out TV you
know there's a lot of places yeah no
joke alright everybody check it out is
fantastic Kevin thank you again so much
for being here thanks guys
I take everybody Peter what's up
everybody there is no way to build an
empowering mindset or get ahead in
business without constantly learning and
accessing new information and today I
want to share one of my secret weapons
in the battle to learn new things and
get ahead and that is blink estar
ever-changing routines there has never
been a better time to learn something
new but with thousands of options
available finding the best way to learn
can be challenging and that's why I
recommend the app called bling cast
bling cast is a unique and powerful app
it works on your phone your tablet or
your web browser and blink us give you
the best key takeaways the need to know
information from over 3,000 non-fiction
bestsellers in over twenty seven
categories blinka condenses them down
into blinks which you can read or listen
to in just 15 minutes
and now blinka stuffers its members even
more including exclusive original
podcast from top authors and creative
thinkers you still get access to the in
hi herb Linkous library with your
membership so this is all additional
over 14 million people use blankets to
deepen their knowledge and topic
spanning self-improvement personal
growth management leadership mindfulness
happiness and a whole bunch more two
books from their library that I
personally highly recommend are start
with why by simon Sinek and the power of
habit by Charles Duhigg that is some
super powerful knowledge given to you
just in that super distilled form and
blankets is a great way you can get the
distilled information and then later go
deeper if you want it is very very
powerful to get these blinks these
nugget bite-size distilled information
so that you know exactly where to go
alright right now blink is has a special
offer just for our audience go to blink
s calm slash impact theory and start
your free 7-day trial and get 25% off a
blink it's premium membership and up to
65% off audiobooks which are yours by
the way forever
that's blinka spelled BL i NK IST bling
cast calm / impact theory to get 25% off
a premium membership and a 7-day free
trial guys i hope you'll give this a
shot
anything that pushes your knowledge
forward I am a thousand percent behind
right take care and be legendary if you
always do good work from your standards
whether you're in a project that fails
or succeeds you can live with that
but if you're doing things on other
people's criteria standards and you fail
you feel terrible